.\" Manual page for acltool
.\" Contact pen@lysator.lius.e to correct errors or typos.
.TH acltool 1 "04 May 2020" "1.7" "acltool man page"
.SH NAME
acltool \- manipulate NFSv4 and ZFS ACLs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B acltool
.RI "[" "<option>*" "]"
.RI "[" "<action>" ""
.RI "[" "<option>*" "]"
.RI "[" "<path>*" "]" "" "]"
.P
.B lac
.RI "[" "<option>*" "]"
.RI "<path>*"
.P
.B sac
.RI "[" "<option>*" "]"
.RI "[" "<acl>" "]"
.RI "<path>+"
.P
.B edac
.RI "[" "<option>*" "]"
.RI "[" "<simple-change>" "]"
.RI "<path>+"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B acltool
is a tool to manipulate NFSv4 & ZFS ACLs in various ways. POSIX.1e ACLs is
.B not
supported as of this time.
.SH ABBREVIATIONS
All
.B actions
or
.B "long options"
may be abbreviated freely as long as they can be uniqely
identfied. For example
.B edit-access
may be abbreviated to
.B edac,
.B ed-ac,
.B edit-acc
or
.B edit
and many other variants.
Similarly
.B --no-update
may (for example) be abbreviated to
.B --no-up
or
.B --nu.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-h | --help"
Display usage information.
.TP
.B "-v | --verbose"
Increase verbosity
.TP
.B "-n | --no-update"
No-update mode.
.TP
.B "-s | --sort"
Enable
.B "Sort ACL"
mode.
.TP
.B "-m | --merge"
Enable
.B "Merge ACL"
mode.
.TP
.B "-r | --recurse"
Recurse thru directory tree.
.TP
.B "-d <n> | --depth=<n>"
Limit recursion depth.
.TP
.B "-S <s> | --style=<S>"
Set ACL print style.
.TP
.B "-p | --print"
Increase
.B "Print ACL"
mode.
.TP
.B "-n | --no-update"
Never modify ACLs on disk.
.TP
.B "-N | --no-prefix"
Do not print path prefix when listing matching ACL entries.
.TP
.B "-e <cr> | --exec=<cr>"
Add a semicolon-separated list of <change-requests> to be applied to ACLs
.I (only for edit-access)
.TP
.B "-f <file> | --file=<file>"
Read a semicolon or line-separated list of <change-requests> from a
file to be applied to ACLs
.I (only for edit-access)
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B help
.br
Display usage information about all actions, or more detailed information
about a specific one.
.TP
.B "list-access" (lac)
.br
List ACLs
.TP
.B "edit-access" (edac)
.br
Modify ACLs
.TP
.B "copy-access"
.br
Copy ACLs
.TP
.B "delete-access"
.br
Delete ACLs
.TP
.B "find-access"
.br
Search for matching ACLs
.TP
.B "inherit-access"
.br
Propagate ACL inheritance
.TP
.B "rename-access"
.br
Batch-rename ACL entries
.TP
.B "set-access"
.br
Set ACLs
.TP
.B "sort-access"
.br
Sort ACLS
.TP
.B "strip-access"
.br
Strip ACLs
.TP
.B "get-access"
.br
Get ACLs into variables in brief text format.
.TP
.B "change-directory" (cd)
.br
Change current directory
.TP
.B "print-working-directory" (pwd)
.br
Print current working directory
.TP
.B "exit-command" (exit)
.br
Exit from interactive mode.
.TP
.B "echo"
.br
Print text
.TP
.B "version"
.br
Print version and buiild information.
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
.B Interactive Mode
is entered if you do not specify an action on the command line.
In this mode tab-completion works for commands and common long
options (not action-specific options). Environment variables may be accessed
using ${name}.
.SH ALTERNATIVE PROGRAM NAMES
You may make symbolic links to
.B acltool
in order to use actions directly. For example "ln -s acltool lac" makes it
possible to use "lac" as a shortcut to "acltool lac" from a Shell.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.B BSD
setfacl(1), getfacl(1), acl(3), acl(9)
.TP
.B SunOS
chmod(1), ls(1), acl(2)
.TP
.B Linux
nfs4_getfacl(1), nfs4_setfacl(1), nfs4_acl(5)
.TP
.B RFC's
RFC3530 (NFSv4.0), NFSv4.1 Minor Version Draft.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs
.SH SOURCE
https://github.com/ptrrkssn/acltool
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Eriksson <pen@lysator.liu.se>

